#Reading Assignment # 3 
 
### Summary of *Does Distributed Development Affect Software Quality? An Empirical Case Study of Windows Vista* [1]

#### Download Link 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.prox.lib.ncsu.edu/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5070550

#### Keywords	 
* ii1: Distributed Development: This term refers development of software that is spread across various levels - building, campus, locality, continent, world. Different teams working at different locations work together to build a complex software system. 
* ii2: Collocated Development: This refers to development of software systems in which the teams are working in the same location - say same building or floor. In collocated development, teams can reach out to each other and communication and collaboration becomes relatively easy.
* ii3: Software Quality: This refers to the quality of software that is being produced. Quality is typically measured in terms of failure/bugs found in the software. A poor quality software will have more bugs and encounter failures.
* ii4: Outsourcing: It is a special case of distributed development model in which different companies work on building a complex software system.

#### Key Points
* iii1: Related Work: The paper provides a brief survey of the important work done in the area of globally distributed software development. The authors discuss the effects of distributed development on bug resolution. Some papers conclude that it indirectly introduces delay while some say it does not have a strong effect. Some conclude only feasible decisions should be made in a project. Previous works have also focused on the effects on quality and productivity. It has been found that there is little, if any, correlation between geographic distance of developers and productivity and defect density. Offshoring can lead to several drawbacks such as more documentation needs. Some previous papers also focused on risk factors and categorized them. They found that globally distributed model did not increase defect density and they come up with key actions that make a successful global development model.
* iii2: Motivational Statements: The term "Distributed Software Development" is a general concept and could be operationalized in various ways. The paper stresses that it is important to consider the way that developers and other entities are distributed. The authors are interested in studying the effect of global distributed software development within the same company. Through this study, they want to confirm or refute whether global distributed software development leads to more failures within the context of this setting. Further, their study is unique since there is no prior work which has done such a large scale study within an organization at multiple levels of separation (building, campus, continent,etc). Further, the authors also want to find out if the binaries that are distributed differ from their collocated counterparts in any significant ways.
* iii3: Hypotheses: The paper formulates two hypotheses: H1: Binaries that are developed by teams of engineers that are distributed will have more post-release failures than those developed by collocated engineers. H2: Binaries that are distributed will be less complex, experience less code churn, and have fewer dependencies than collocated binaries. The first hypothesis is related to code quality or failures that are detected in post-release of software whereas the second hypothesis focuses on the properties of software binaries that result out of the two systems - distributed and collocated development.
* iii4: Future Work: The paper concludes that distributed development has little to no effect. The authors confirm that there are scenarios in which distributed development would work well. They observe that an organizationally compact but geographically distributed project would do well as compared to geographically local and organizationally distributed project. The authors observe a lot of factors and practices that Microsoft followed which played a big role in almost nullifying the negative effects of distributed development as opposed to conventional wisdom and widely held beliefs. The authors mention that as part of future work, they would want to discuss the effects of these practices in detail on the globally distributed software development.  

#### Suggestions for Improvement 
* iv1: Organizations that often rush into deadlines, tend to add a lot of bugs in releases; the concept of deadline/project management can be added in the proposed organizational model  
* iv2: The binaries that are generated from source code can be assumed to follow a certain design, and project planning that are specific to an organization. This aspect of organization, can affect test design, software design which in the process can software quality. Would be interesting to see an empirical study that considers theses factors as well. 
* iv3: The metric task/engineer is also an organizational aspect that can affect software quality. Quantifying the tasks assigned for each engineer might vary across the organization, and can affect software quality 

#### Connection to the Initial Paper
Our selected initial paper titled *Ecological Inference in Empirical Software Engineering [2]* provided a conceptual framework on how prediction models can vary if metrics that are collected at aggregated with that of metrics collected at non-aggregated level. In this paper, the authors take a holistic organizational approach, disregarding the difference of aggregated and dis-aggregated levels.  

####Reference
[1] Nachiappan Nagappan, Brendan Murphy, and Victor Basili. The Influence of Organizational Structure on Software Quality: An Empirical Case Study, in *Proceedings of the 30th International conference on Software engineering (ICSE '08)*, pages 521-530, ACM, 2008

[2] D. Posnett, V. Filkov, and P. Devanbu. Ecological inference in empirical software engineering. In Proceedings of the 2011 26th IEEE/ACM Inter- national Conference on Automated Software Engineering, pages 362–371. IEEE Computer Society, 2011. 